The first step again is to get access to that add button here and we can select this like we selected
the cancel button, just with button success or actually based on the cancel button
and then we take the next element sibling which would be this add button
and here it's unlikely that another button gets added,
so using the DOM traversal technique actually should be fine here but using a query selector or assigning
an ID to it which you could do of course, that's also totally fine.
Here also to practice the DOM traversal, I'll add my confirm add movie button and use my cancel add
movie button here and then next element sibling which will give me the next element sibling which
is just this  confirm add movie button.
Now we can take that and add an event listener to this button as well here at the bottom, add event listener
click and I want to add an event listener here where I trigger a function where we then collect all
the input and try to do something with that. So I'll add a new function here, add
movie and actually I'm not quite happy with the names I've picked here,
I name this here backdrop click handler, here
I name these functions in a different way
and I mentioned earlier in the course that you should be consistent
and actually I like this approach of having handler at the end of functions which are triggered by an
event listener.
Now for toggleMovieModal, you could go either way because this also is a function which I call from
inside my code,
I also attach it to event listeners,
so you could argue that I should add handler to it,
you could argue that it makes sense to not add it because I also call it from other places. For backdrop
click handler, there
I didn't actually connect this here,
I should have done that of course,
yes that's a mistake,
so there I connect this to the backdrop and that has the right naming because it is only is called upon
a click listener. For cancel adding a movie, I should also add a handler here because I only call
this or I only connect this to an event listener as well
and for adding a movie here, I will also only call this when this button is clicked, so upon an event
listener,
so I will also name this add movie handler.
So now these names should be fine and should be consistent
and whilst it is of course not the end of the world if you make a mistake there,
you should try to be consistent here because that ultimately improves readability of your code and
makes it easier to understand.
So with that, we get the add movie handler function connected to that confirm add movie button,
now my goal is to select all the values that were added by the user, so the inputs to these three
inputs, validate them with a very basic validation where I just check whether they're empty and for
this input here,
I want to check if the number that was entered is between 1 and 5 and then add a movie object in some
array which we also have to add in our script.
So let's get access to these inputs here and of course, you can select them in different ways,
you could select them as a list by selecting the input element, you could select each one individually
by its ID,
now to practice this list selection which we haven't done thus far,
I will actually add a new constant here, input or just inputs,
alternatively of course input elements but I haven't used element before so I'll not start now, just
name this maybe user inputs and then here reach out to my add movie modal and in there, we can use query
selector all to select all elements that meet this CSS selector and here I'm selecting all elements
with an input tag
so that of course will select these three inputs here and as an alternative, you could also have used the
more old school method of get elements by tag name input, that would also work and is also totally fine
to be used but I'll go with the query selector all method.
So this gives me all these inputs here in an array-like object, in such a node list and therefore now
we can use this here in add movie handler to retrieve the values from there.
So there, I want to get my title value let's say and I can get this from user inputs and there
the first element at index 0,
that will be this title input and the order is also unlikely to change,
so accessing it by index like this should be fine.
You could of course also come up with more dynamic solutions but actually, we would need a bit more Javascript
knowledge to implement a more dynamic solution and this solution is absolutely fine.
So here, I select the first element and then .value because this will be an input element, so we will
have a value property there, duplicate this and add an imageUrl value here which is the value of the
second input because that is our imageUrl
input and the third input is this rating,
so duplicate this once more
and there we have the rating value,
select the third element with index two therefore and get that value
and now with that, I just want to quickly check the input values here and check if title value
and now there's a helpful method you can call on strings,
the .trim method,
this will remove excess whitespace at the beginning and at the end of the input so that if you enter
something like this which essentially is an empty value but technically is not an empty string, that
if you enter something like this, it's still treated as an empty string because trim will remove
such excess whitespace, so whitespace which is not between two words.
So if the trimmed value, so the value which is corrected for all excess whitespace,
if that is equal to an empty string or if imageUrl value, if we trim that, is equal to an empty
string or if the rating value,
if we trim that is equal to an empty string, then we certainly have an invalid input,
though I also want to add another condition for which I want to check, so or if rating value is smaller
than one and I can't compare it to a number here,
it will hold a string but it will then try to coerce it to a number,
alternatively of course to be super clear we can add a plus or parseInt here to convert this to a number
and I will not add a check that checks where this can be converted to a number. You could do that as
well, you could check if parseInt rating value returns not a number and then also throw an error here.
I'll omit this check here, also because this type of input makes it hard to enter none number content, due
to the way it's configured, at least on modern browsers. So I will omit this check but I want to check
for numbers that are too small or that are too high, greater than five.
So if any of that is the case, I will throw an alert and say Please enter valid values rating between
1 and 5 and of course, you could also build your own modal, for that
I'll just use that built-in alert and thereafter return so that we don't continue with the function
execution. If we give that a quick try here and I reload and I try to click add here without anything
entered,
we get that alert here. If I enter a movie but I enter nothing for the URL, l still get an error, still
get an error, entering six here, still get an error, entering -2 here, still get an error and entering
a value between 1 and 5,
like three,
well now we don't get an error,
so now is the part where we can continue and then use these results.
Of course, you could also check if that really is a valid URL but that's something I don't really
want to focus on right now,
it's also not really the focus of this module.